---
title: "Day Nine: Skewed Rest"
description: "I usually think of Sundays as a day of rest, but last night I had in the back of my mind the niggling feeling that there wouldn’t be real rest today. There are always household chores to attend to, and most of them can be scheduled. Then there are days when the floor drain in one’s basement backs up, disgorging foul smelling water, and black gobs of some unknown granular substance, prompting some cleaning. But hey, that part of the basement has a clean floor now!"
date: "2019-06-09T20:00:39-07:00"
tags:
  - "Unemployed"
---

I usually think of Sundays as a day of rest, but last night I had in the back of my mind the niggling feeling that there wouldn’t be real rest today. There are always household chores to attend to, and most of them can be scheduled. Then there are days when the floor drain in one’s basement backs up, disgorging foul smelling water, and black gobs of some unknown granular substance, prompting some cleaning. But hey, that part of the basement has a clean floor now!

Tomorrow brings with it a postponed birthday pool party (postponed because the originally scheduled day had rain and lightning). There was a desire, on the part of the eldest, to bake a cake. I enjoy baking, but for carbohydridic and caloric reasons, my mixer gathers dust. Not so today; today, my child and I baked a chocolate cake together (of course from scratch). I was asked if it was “really so important” that we use a scale (we didn’t, mine has been in pieces for more than a year, but I said we should have used one) to which I was able to affirm that it is indeed important because we were doing chemistry! We homeschool, so this wasn’t just a birthday cake, it was a chemistry lesson, a math lesson (“If we need 2 cups of flour and you are using the 1/4 cup spoon, how many scoops is that?”), and a lesson in following instructions (were I not there a 9x13 muffin would have been produced, rather than a cake). You know what, everything went smoothly: I did not exasperate my child! Judging from the smell, and the spatula I licked, it’ll be a delicious cake.

The rest of day was spent dodging weird emotional states I didn’t want to entertain. I’d like to blame my cat, who decided 4am was a good time to complain about food and to repeat that complaint four times until he was locked out of my room (which prompted some scratching at the door, which he never does but our rescue cat does, prompting yet another wake up moment), but I think lingering stress and the all-too-present uncertainty are really the root cause (though not getting a good night’s sleep has had its toll; just look at this sentence). I finished a novella (reading, not writing; my ability to be creative and finish the story/novella I’m writing is on hiatus) and enjoyed a couple of chapters of an audiobook (the first book in the Longmire series), and watched some YouTube with the children.

I’m not sure I’m ready for tomorrow. I have to wrap up my contract job. There’s the birthday party, which I will miss. And there’s an evening function featuring the other child. I’ll also be obsessively checking my email hoping for progress.