---
title: "Day Two: What About Faith?"
description: "I still think of Sunday as a day of rest, and while there are several businesses open on this day, I do not expect to hear back from any of the companies I’ve applied to. So today is to be a slow day, a day of waiting, with respect to employment. But as I am a man of faith, today is also a day in which I go to church to fellowship with my brothers and sisters in Christ, and hope to attain some measure of encouragement."
date: "2019-06-02T14:10:32+07:00"
tags: ["Unemployed", "Faith"]
---

I still think of Sunday as a day of rest, and while there are several businesses open on this day, I do not expect to hear back from any of the companies I’ve applied to. So today is to be a slow day, a day of waiting, with respect to employment. But as I am a man of faith, today is also a day in which I go to church to fellowship with my brothers and sisters in Christ, and hope to attain some measure of encouragement.

## Faith & Science
I’ve long worried about my resume, because in the midst of being employed as a computer programmer, I also served as a pastoral intern, and interim pastor, and completed a bachelor’s of science in biblical studies. Everyone wants to know what kind of education I have, so my degree is listed on my resume. I was told, many years ago, that a resume should include all work, so my pastoral experience is also listed.

It’s strange to me that so many people assume science and faith cannot coexist. On one occasion, a coworker of mine asked me, quite genuinely, how I was able to maintain faith when I was clearly a scientist. I was taken aback, not by the question, but by his identifying me as a scientist; I’ve always thought of myself as not quite a scientist, rather one who play acts at it, and can affect some ability in doing science, but is otherwise an impostor. I’m used to having people of faith wonder how I can possibly pursue science. This was the first time I was accused of being a scientist.

I wonder how many people who review my resume dismiss me because of my faith. Anecdotally, it appears to be a sticking issue with some. In a recent interview the first question I was asked, after being directed to introduce myself, was about my degree. The interviewer wanted to know how I went from faith to development. I should point out that my diploma is sixteen years old now. In that sixteen years I’ve been gainfully employed, full-time, as a software engineer, and yet this interview began with a question about my degree, as if my abilities as an engineer, as a scientist, we’re in doubt.

## Faith in Practice
Going to church today was not something I was looking forward to. I was rather eager to go all last month, that I might make my plight known, so that some would pray for me. As such, many people at church said they’d be praying that God would provide me with a job. Each week I’d go to church and share what little news I had; each week they’d ensure me they would keep praying. I had to walk into church today and look people in the eye and watch their countenance fall as I answered their question about my employment: no, I do not have a job, and no I do not have an offer. It was hard to hear them reassure me that they were praying for me, that they were praying hard, or often, or both. It’s hard not to wonder why God hasn’t yet provided a job, especially when so many good men and women are praying.

What does faith look like? I told my coworker that he and I both had faith in gravity. We know little about it, cannot see it, but trust that it will continue to pull us down. It’s why we sit on chairs with such confidence: we know gravity will keep us there. We also have faith in mathematics. Two plus two is four, it always has been four, and it always will be four. We may not be able to understand the proof for that simple equation (I’m told the gist of the proof is, “Because that’s the way we count”) but we trust that the laws of mathematics worked yesterday, today, and will work tomorrow. But what does it look like to have faith in God, especially a God who describes Himself as a provider, when one needs a job?

This past month has been trying. I’ve been exhausted by stress and anxiety. I’ve lived in fear of this moment, the moment in which I am counted among The Unemployed. What will that mean? What have I become? Am I different now that I am unemployed? Will people treat me differently? I spent more time than I care to admit, going about my life either numb inside, or with tears running into my beard, and sometimes both (which is uncomfortably confusing).

All of this motivated me to fill out applications and to send resumes and cover letters. And…and…and…well that’s it. I would exhaust myself reading job postings and responding to them to the best of my abilities, and quickly realized that was all I could do. I couldn’t come up with more that I can do in order to get a job. They have to decide to setup an interview, and then I have to agree to the interview, and be honest during the interview. That’s it. So what does faith look like: doing what is mine to do. The rest is up to God; He’ll do what is His to do, and I’ll trust that if there is more for me to do, He will make it known to me. Then, it will be my job to obey and do.

I know I will one day be employed. I know my bills will be paid, there will be food on the table, and we will have clothes on our backs. I don’t know when I’ll have a job. I don’t know how my bills will be paid, where the food will come from, or if we’ll need to buy more clothes. But I know one day I will be employed, and I know God will provide. He’s done it before, and I trust He will do it again.